Add PostgREST Example (#122)
pgroonga/pgroonga.github.io: how-to/postgrest.md

- Treating hiragana and katakana as equivalent (searching for "あっぷる" will match both "あっぷる" and "アップル").
- Treating hiragana, katakana, and romaji as equivalent (searching for "de-tabe-su" will match "de-tabe-su," "でーたべーす," and "データベース").
- Treating various long vowel marks as equivalent (treating similar long vowel marks, such as "-˗֊‐‑‒–⁃⁻₋− ﹣－ ー—―─━ｰ," as the same for easier searching).

Now, let's try it out!

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pgroonga;

CREATE TABLE memos (
  id integer,
  title text,
  content text
);

-- Please don't mind the randomness of the sample text 😗
INSERT INTO memos VALUES (1, 'PostgreSQLはリレーショナル・データベース管理システムです。','すごいでしょう');
INSERT INTO memos VALUES (2, 'Groongaは日本語対応の高速な全文検索エンジンです。','スワイショウ');
INSERT INTO memos VALUES (3, 'PGroongaはインデックスとしてGroongaを使うためのPostgreSQLの拡張機能です。','ハバナイスデー');
INSERT INTO memos VALUES (4, 'groongaコマンドがあります。','今日はコンバンワこのくにわ');

CREATE INDEX pgroonga_title_search_index ON memos USING pgroonga (title) 
  WITH (
    normalizers = 'NormalizerNFKC150
      (
        "unify_kana", true,
        "unify_to_romaji", true,
        "unify_hyphen_and_prolonged_sound_mark", true
      )',

>     tokenizer = 'TokenBigramSplitSymbolAlphaDigit'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tokenizer = 'TokenNgram("unify_symbol", false, "unify_alphabet", false, "unify_digit", false)'
```

  );
  
CREATE INDEX pgroonga_content_search_index ON memos USING pgroonga (content) 
  WITH (
    normalizers = 'NormalizerNFKC150
      (
        "unify_kana", true,
        "unify_to_romaji", true,
        "unify_hyphen_and_prolonged_sound_mark", true
      )',
    tokenizer = 'TokenBigramSplitSymbolAlphaDigit'
  );
```

> ## To create the necessary permissions for PostgREST, you can follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prepare PostgREST permissions

To create the necessary permissions for PostgREST, you can follow these steps:

```

```sql
create role web_user nologin;
grant usage on schema public to web_user;
grant select on memos to web_user;

create role authenticator noinherit login password 'mypassword';
grant web_user to authenticator;
```

> ## Create a configuration file for PostgREST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure PostgRES

Create a configuration file for PostgREST:

```

Author: Configure PostgRES
↓
Configure PostgRES`T`ですね、直します

Author: Fixed👍

```sh
vi memo.conf
```

> Inside of the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside of the file:
```

```vim
db-uri = "postgres://authenticator:mypassword@localhost:5432/api"
db-schemas = "public"
db-anon-role = "web_user"
```

## Start PostgREST

```sh
postgrest memo.conf
```

Oh, for the installation method of PostgREST, please refer to https://postgrest.org/en/stable/explanations/install.html 😉

## Access the URL
Open your browser and access the following:

http://localhost:3000/memos

Result:

```json
[{"id":1,"title":"PostgreSQLはリレーショナル・データベース管理システムです。","content":"すごいでしょう"}, 
 {"id":2,"title":"Groongaは日本語対応の高速な全文検索エンジンです。","content":"スワイショウ"}, 
 {"id":3,"title":"PGroongaはインデックスとしてGroongaを使うためのPostgreSQLの拡張機能です。","content":"ハバナイスデー"}, 
 {"id":4,"title":"groongaコマンドがあります。","content":"今日はコンバンワこのくにわ"}]
```

> What? Is it really this easy to have a working REST API endpoint? It's too convenient! 🤯

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What? Is it really easy to have a working REST API endpoint? It's too convenient! 🤯
```

Author: this easyで単なる「簡単〜」から「こんなに簡単！」をアピールしたんだけどダメ？

Reviewer: そんな英語の使い方があるんですか！（私は英語が得意ではないのです！）

であればこのままでいいです！

Author: では`Resolve conversation`をぽちっとな

## Searching with PGroonga

Now, since the operators `&@~` required for searching with PGroonga are not directly available in PostgREST, we will create a stored function to enable their usage.

```sh
psql api
```

Execute the following SQL statement:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION find_title(keywords text) RETURNS SETOF memos AS $$
BEGIN
  RETURN QUERY SELECT * FROM memos WHERE title &@~ keywords;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

CREATE FUNCTION find_content(keywords text) RETURNS SETOF memos AS $$
BEGIN
  RETURN QUERY SELECT * FROM memos WHERE content &@~ keywords;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;
```

## Searching with PGroonga in PostgREST
When calling stored functions in PostgREST, the URL format is `/rpc/function_name`.

Open your browser and access the following:

[`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=コマンド`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=コマンド)

The following results will be returned.
```json
[{"id":4,"title":"groongaコマンドがあります。","content":"今日はコンバンワこのくにわ"}]
```

By the way, using a browser to hit the URL is easier than using curl because dealing with encoding can be cumbersome.

```sh

> curl "http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=%E3%82%B3%E3%83%9E%E3%83%B3%E3%83%89"

Reviewer: How about using `--get` and `--data-urlencode`?

```suggestion
curl --get --data-urlencode keywords=コマンド http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title
```

Reviewer: @askdkc ping

Author: Oh, I missed this comment 😅

[{"id":4,"title":"groongaコマンドがあります。","content":"今日はコンバンワこのくにわ"}]
```

> ### `PGroonga`'s functionality also supports searching in romaji.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Search in romaji
```

Reviewer: @askdkc ping

Author: Oops, I missed this one too 🥲

Open your browser and access the following:

[`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=desu`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=desu)

```json
[{"id":1,"title":"PostgreSQLはリレーショナル・データベース管理システムです。","content":"すごいでしょう"}, 
 {"id":2,"title":"Groongaは日本語対応の高速な全文検索エンジンです。","content":"スワイショウ"}, 
 {"id":3,"title":"PGroongaはインデックスとしてGroongaを使うためのPostgreSQLの拡張機能です。","content":"ハバナイスデー"}]
```

> ### `PGroonga`'s functionality also supports treating hiragana and katakana as equivalent in searches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Searching hiragana and katakana in hiragana or katakana
```

Open your browser and access the following:

[`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_content?keywords=ショウ`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_content?keywords=ショウ)

```json
[{"id":1,"title":"PostgreSQLはリレーショナル・データベース管理システムです。","content":"すごいでしょう"}, 
 {"id":2,"title":"Groongaは日本語対応の高速な全文検索エンジンです。","content":"スワイショウ"}]
```

### AND search

Open your browser and access the following:

> [`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga%20です`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga%20です)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga です`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga%20です)
```

```json
[{"id":2,"title":"Groongaは日本語対応の高速な全文検索エンジンです。","content":"スワイショウ"}, 
 {"id":3,"title":"PGroongaはインデックスとしてGroongaを使うためのPostgreSQLの拡張機能です。","content":"ハバナイスデー"}]
```

### OR search

Open your browser and access the following:

> [`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga%20OR%20です`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga%20OR%20です)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga OR です`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=nga%20OR%20です)
```

```json
[{"id":2,"title":"Groongaは日本語対応の高速な全文検索エンジンです。","content":"スワイショウ"}, 
 {"id":3,"title":"PGroongaはインデックスとしてGroongaを使うためのPostgreSQLの拡張機能です。","content":"ハバナイスデー"}, 
 {"id":4,"title":"groongaコマンドがあります。","content":"今日はコンバンワこのくにわ"}, 
 {"id":1,"title":"PostgreSQLはリレーショナル・データベース管理システムです。","content":"すごいでしょう"}]
```

## Bonus
When you want to allow various additional searches, you can create multiple stored functions.

> ### Here is an example of a stored function that performs a dynamic search by passing the column name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Make target column customizable

Here is an example of a stored function that performs a dynamic search by passing the column name:
```

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION search_col(column_name text, keyword text)
  RETURNS SETOF memos
  LANGUAGE plpgsql
AS $$
BEGIN
  RETURN QUERY EXECUTE format('SELECT * FROM memos WHERE %I &@~ ''%s''', column_name, keyword);
END;
$$;
```

> ### Stored function to search all columns with a keyword:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Search all columns

Stored function to search all columns with a keyword:
```

## Searching with PGroonga

Now, since the operators `&@~` required for searching with PGroonga are not directly available in PostgREST, we will create a stored function to enable their usage.

```sh
psql api
```

Execute the following SQL statement:

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION find_title(keywords text) RETURNS SETOF memos AS $$
BEGIN
  RETURN QUERY SELECT * FROM memos WHERE title &@~ keywords;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

CREATE FUNCTION find_content(keywords text) RETURNS SETOF memos AS $$
BEGIN
  RETURN QUERY SELECT * FROM memos WHERE content &@~ keywords;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;
```

## Searching with PGroonga in PostgREST
When calling stored functions in PostgREST, the URL format is `/rpc/function_name`.

Open your browser and access the following:

[`http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=コマンド`](http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title?keywords=コマンド)

The following results will be returned.
```json
[{"id":4,"title":"groongaコマンドがあります。","content":"今日はコンバンワこのくにわ"}]
```

By the way, using a browser to hit the URL is easier than using curl because dealing with encoding can be cumbersome.

> ```sh
> curl --get --data-urlencode keywords=コマンド http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
$ curl --get --data-urlencode keywords=コマンド http://localhost:3000/rpc/find_title
```
